Documentation
-------------

Table of content
----------------
1. Introduction

2. Description of the approach
2.1 Inner sandbox for untrusted processes
2.2 Outer sandbox for untrusted processes
2.3 Sandbox for benign processes

3. Policy inference for untrusted processes


1. Introduction
---------------
The goal of our approach is to protect the integrity of a host while preserving
normal user experience. We assume that core software installed on the host
(including the operating system and administrative programs) is benign: it comes
from trustworthy providers, and preserve host integrity in the absence of
interference by users or malware. Rest of the software may come from untrusted
sources, and some of this software may be malicious, i.e., it will seek to evade
security policies and compromise system security. 

There are mainly two approaches dealing with untrusted software: sandboxing and
isolation. In sandboxing, policy is developed to confine software. Software can
only perform permissible actions. It is intuitive but there are several
challenges:
- It is difficult to develop policy to allow untrusted code to be usable while
  being able to protect against malware
- It is difficult to protect against multi-step attacks
On the other hand, isolation provides much stronger protection and
usability. They permit sufficient access for most applications to work while
isolating the resources used by benign and untrusted processes. Isolation also
requires no policy development, making untrusted processes usable. However,
there are have the following drawbacks:
- Fragmentation of user data: user data are partitioned into two or more
  containers
- Inability to compose applications: isolation prevents resources to be shared,
  hence it is hard to compose applications to achieve a task
- No protection when isolation is breached

The goal of our approach is to provide same security protection as isolation but
under a single, unfragmented view of user’s data. It is natural to start with
the sandboxing model. However, as mentioned earlier, it is difficult to develop
secure yet functional sandboxing policies for untrusted code. So, we propose a
counter-intuitive alternative: focus policy enforcement on goodware rather than
(potential) malware. In addition to preventing subversion attacks on benign
software, our design utilizes benign sandboxing to relax and simplify policies
on untrusted code, thus improving their usability as well as security. 

The key features of the approach include:

- decomposed sandbox architecture: combine sandboxing for untrusted and benign
  processes to simplify the design and implementation
- techniques for inferring policies from runtime time and profile data for
  untrusted processes
- system integrity assurance and guranteeing availability of benign applications
- Seamless user experience
- Sparing users from making security-critical policy decision: user decisions 



2. Description of the approach
------------------------------
To overcome previously mentioned challenges of sandboxing policy enforcement, we
propose an interesting approach that further decomposes policies on untrusted
code. This decomposition permits most enforcement to be performed in a setting
where sandboxed software has no incentive to evade enforcement. This cooperative
policy enforcement is anchored over a minimal non-bypassable enforcement
component. Here too, we avoid the difficulties of non-bypassable enforcement by
reusing a time-tested OS policy enforcement mechanism, namely, userid based
access control. This is enforced by our inner sandbox.

The inner sandbox relies on the system DAC permission to confine untrusted
processes from performing operations that are dangerous. However, the system DAC
permission is too coarse grained and untrusted processes are not usable under
the inner sandbox. Hence, outer sandbox is introduced to relax the policy
enforced. The outer sandbox is enforced by intercepting calls to library,
combined with a trusted helper process to grant additional privileges to
untrusted processes. Hence, circumvent is not a problem. 

Complete protection is achieved by also enforcing policies on benign
processes. The sandbox for benign processes confine the interaction with
untrusted code and data. Same as the outer sandbox for untrusted processes,
sandbox for benign processes is also enforced using library
interception. Circumvent is not a problem because we are confining benign
processes. They do not have any intention to bypass any policy enforced as they
already have the privileges. 

By confining both untrusted and benign processes, benign processes will not
interact with any untrusted code and data. Untrusted code and data will only be
consumed within sandbox for untrusted processes. The system integrity can hence
be preserved. 

2.1 Inner sandbox for untrusted processes
-----------------------------------------
The system relies on existing DAC permission on OSes to enforce non-bypassable
policies on untrusted processes. The basic policy to enforce is to prevent
untrusted processes from modifying benign files. This is enforced by running
untrusted processes with a brand-new userid R_u. 

Specifically, the following will be performed:
- A new userid R_u denoting the untrusted user is added for the current user
- For each group G the current user belongs to, there is an additional group
  G_u created to include all members in G and R_u 
- A new group 'trusted_group' consisting of all userids except the untrusted
  one is created 

The installation process will also make the following modifications to ensure
that existing world-accessible files are protected from untrusted
processes. Specifically: 
- world-writable files and directories are made group-writable by trusted_group
- world-executable files setuid programs are made executable by members of
  trusted_group: either by making the executable group-executable or using ACLs 

With the inner sandbox in place, untrusted processes can only modify files that
are owned by untrusted processes. These files do not exist initially in the
system. 


2.2 Outer sandbox for untrusted processes
-----------------------------------------
The goal of the outer sandbox is to relax the policy enforced by the inner
sandbox to make untrusted processes usable. It is achieved by intercepting
system calls made in library. The outer sandbox is used to achieve: 
- Reading user-readable files that untrusted user does not have read permission
  from DAC. 
- Executing user-executable files that untrusted user does not have execute
  permission from DAC [Currently not implemented]. 
- Creating new files or directories in user-writable directories.
- Overwriting of existing files that belong to untrusted users. This allows
  rename(2) to be performed in directories that are writable by the real user,
  but not the untrusted user. 
- Seamlessly redirect files that integrity have to be preserved (The list is
  determined based on policy specified in Policy Inferring Section). During
  redirection, the outer sandbox transparently creates a private copy of the
  file for any subsequent use by R_u. The original file is left unchanged in the
  file system. All future references to the files are modified transparently to
  ensure processes have consistence file system view.
- Providing userid and group transparency: Return user's uid and gid instead of
  untrusted user's uid and gid. 

As mentioned previously, outer sandbox is enforced using library and a trusted
helper process. The library component transparently resolve any access denied by
the inner sandbox. For operations such as providing userid transparency and
redirection, the library can perform the operation itself. For operations that
are limited by the DAC permission, it will contact the trusted helper process
using Unix domain socket, and request the trusted helper process to perform the
requested actions. The trusted helper process will perform the operations if
they are compliant with the policies specified above. 

2.3 Sandbox for benign processes
--------------------------------
Same as the outer sandbox for untrusted processes, benign processes are confined
by intercepting system calls made in library. There are three basic ways for
benign processes to interact with untrusted processes: 
- Full isolation: This is the default policy for benign processes when
  interacting with untrusted processes. The sandbox for benign processes will 
  prevent benign processes from accessing untrusted code or data. 
- Unrestricted interaction: Selected processes can be designated as trusted so
  that they can freely interact with untrusted code and data. Trusted processes
  can be specified in the trusted process list. 
- Controlled interaction: Benign processes may be trusted to interact with
  selected code or data. Our system supports specifying a list of untrusted file
  paths that a program when executed as benign process can interact without any
  confinement. This can be configured in trust-confined process list. 

The sandbox for untrusted processes make sure that untrusted data are
labeled. To prevent benign processes from consuming untrusted data, the sandbox
for benign process can simply look at the integrity labels of data. If the data
is untrusted, the sandbox can simply return EPERM or ENOENT, depending on the
policy. (Note: The system overloads the DAC permission information to serve as
integrity label. An integrity label is untrusted if it allows untrusted users to
write, or is group owned by untrusted users.) 


3. Policy Inference for untrusted processes
-------------------------------------------
Not all write accesses to benign files by untrusted processes are
redirected. Redirection should be applied as little as possible as it leads to
file namespace fragmentation. Furthermore, users are not aware of the existence
of the redirected storage, and the storage needs not be persistence. 

The system relies on distinguishing between configuration files and data files
to assign policy. By default, untrusted processes cannot modify benign
files. However, if the benign file is configuration file, the system will apply
redirection. This decision is to make untrusted processes more usable. 

Distinguishing code or configuration files versus data files
Applications tend to know where the code or configuration files are located
without asking users. Based on this observation, we developed a technique to
distinguish code or configuration files versus data files based on
taint-tracking. A file specified explicitly by users is data file. On the other
hand, if the program access a file without explicitly specified by the users are
likely to be code or configuration files. 

To identify implicitly accessed files, we intercept the system calls for record
explicitly specified parameters. These include command-line arguments,
environment variables and file name returned by a file selection widget. We also
record all files opened by a process. Files that are opened in write mode
without appearing in the explicitly specified list are marked as configuration
files. These files hence can be redirected. 
